README.md, before:

<div align="center">

![Memphis light logo](https://github.com/memphisdev/memphis-broker/blob/master/logo-white.png?raw=true#gh-dark-mode-only)

</div>

<div align="center">

![Memphis light logo](https://github.com/memphisdev/memphis-broker/blob/master/logo-black.png?raw=true#gh-light-mode-only)

</div>

<div align="center">
<h4>Simple as RabbitMQ, Robust as Apache Kafka, and Perfect for microservices.</h4>

<img width="750" alt="Memphis UI" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70286779/204081372-186aae7b-a387-4253-83d1-b07dff69b3d0.png"><br>


<a href="https://landscape.cncf.io/?selected=memphis"><img width="200" alt="CNCF Silver Member" src="https://github.com/cncf/artwork/raw/master/other/cncf-member/silver/white/cncf-member-silver-white.svg#gh-dark-mode-only"></a>

</div>

<div align="center">

  <img width="200" alt="CNCF Silver Member" src="https://github.com/cncf/artwork/raw/master/other/cncf-member/silver/color/cncf-member-silver-color.svg#gh-light-mode-only">

</div>

 <p align="center">
  <a href="https://sandbox.memphis.dev/" target="_blank">Sandbox</a> - <a href="https://memphis.dev/docs/">Docs</a> - <a href="https://twitter.com/Memphis_Dev">Twitter</a> - <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVdMDLCSxXOqtgrBaRUHKKg">YouTube</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://discord.gg/WZpysvAeTf"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/963333392844328961?color=6557ff&label=discord" alt="Discord"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/memphisdev/memphis-broker/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/memphisdev/memphis-broker?color=6557ff"></a> 
<a href="https://github.com/memphisdev/memphis-broker/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Code%20of%20Conduct-v1.0-ff69b4.svg?color=ffc633" alt="Code Of Conduct"></a> 
<a href="https://docs.memphis.dev/memphis/release-notes/releases/v0.4.2-beta"><img alt="GitHub release (latest by date)" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/memphisdev/memphis-broker?color=61dfc6"></a>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/memphisdev/memphis-broker?color=61dfc6&label=last%20commit">
</p>

**[Memphis](https://memphis.dev)** is a next-generation message broker.<br>
A simple, robust, and durable cloud-native message broker wrapped with<br>
an entire ecosystem that enables fast and reliable development of next-generation event-driven use cases.<br><br>
Memphis enables building next-generation applications that require large volumes of streamed and enriched data,<br>
modern protocols, zero ops, rapid development, extreme cost reduction,<br>
and a significantly lower amount of dev time for data-oriented developers and data engineers.
<br><br>
Creator: [@adrianNEMO](https://github.com/nemoengineering/memphis.kt/commits?author=adrianNEMO)<br>
Maintainer: [@adrianNEMO](https://github.com/nemoengineering/memphis.kt/commits?author=adrianNEMO), [@Memphis team](https://github.com/memphisdev)

# Installation
After installing and running memphis broker,<br>
Add to the dependencies in your gradle file

Currently, releases are published to jitpack: [jitpack.io/#memphisdev/memphis.kt](https://jitpack.io/#memphisdev/memphis.kt)

```kotlin
 repositories {
    mavenCentral()
    maven("https://jitpack.io")
}

dependencies {
    implementation("com.github.memphisdev:memphis.kt:<version>")
}
```

# Importing
```kotlin
import dev.memphis.sdk.Memphis
```

### Connecting to Memphis 
To connect using Username and Password 
```kotlin
 val memphis = Memphis.connect("<memphis-host>", "<application type username>", Memphis.Password("<user-password>"))
```
To connect using Token 
```kotlin
 val memphis = Memphis.connect("<memphis-host>", "<application type username>", Memphis.ConnectionToken("<user-password>"))
```
<br>
It is possible to pass connection configuration parameters.

```kotlin
val memphis = Memphis.connect("<memphis-host>", "<application type username>", Memphis.Password("<user-password>")) {
    port = 6666
    autoReconnect = true
    maxReconnects = 3
    reconnectWait = 5.seconds
    connectionTimeout = 15.seconds
}
```

Once connected, all features offered by Memphis are available.<br>

### Disconnecting from Memphis
To disconnect from Memphis, call Close() on the Memphis connection object.<br>

```kotlin
memphis.close()
```

### Creating a Station
Stations can be created from Conn<br>
Passing optional parameters<br>
_If a station already exists nothing happens, the new configuration will not be applied_<br>

```kotlin
val station = memphis.createStation("<station-name>")

val station = memphis.createStation("<station-name>") {
    retentionType = RetentionType.MAX_AGE_SECONDS
    retentionValue = 604800
    storageType = StorageType.DISK
    replicas = 1
    idempotencyWindow = 2.minutes
    schemaName = "<Schema Name>"
    sendPoisonMsgToDls = true
    sendSchemaFailedMsgToDls = true
}
```

### Retention Types
Memphis currently supports the following types of retention:<br>

```kotlin
RetentionType.MAX_AGE_SECONDS
```

The above means that every message persists for the value set in the retention value field (in seconds).

```kotlin
RetentionType.MESSAGES
```

The above means that after the maximum number of saved messages (set in retention value)<br>has been reached, the oldest messages will be deleted.

```kotlin
RetentionType.BYTES
```

The above means that after maximum number of saved bytes (set in retention value)<br>has been reached, the oldest messages will be deleted.

### Retention Values

The `retention values` are directly related to the `retention types` mentioned above,<br> where the values vary according to the type of retention chosen.

All retention values are of type `int` but with different representations as follows:

`RetentionType.MAX_AGE_SECONDS` is represented **in seconds**, `RetentionType.MESSAGES` in a **number of messages** <br> and finally `RetentionType.BYTES` in a **number of bytes**.

After these limits are reached oldest messages will be deleted.

### Storage Types
Memphis currently supports the following types of messages storage:<br>

```kotlin
StorageType.DISK
```

The above means that messages persist on disk.

```kotlin
StorageType.MEMORY
```

The above means that messages persist on the main memory.<br>

### Destroying a Station
Destroying a station will remove all its resources (including producers and consumers).<br>

```kotlin
station.Destroy()
```

### Attaching a Schema to an Existing Station

```kotlin
memphis.attachSchema("<schema-name>", "<station-name>")

// Or from a station

station.attachSchema("<schema-name>")
```

### Detaching a Schema from Station

```kotlin
memphis.detachSchema("<station-name>")

// Or from a station
station.detachSchema()
```

### Produce and Consume Messages
The most common client operations are producing messages and consuming messages.<br><br>
Messages are published to a station and consumed from it<br>by creating a consumer and consuming the resulting flow.<br>Consumers are pull-based and consume all the messages in a station<br> unless you are using a consumers group,<br>in which case messages are spread across all members in this group.<br><br>
Memphis messages are payload agnostic. Payloads are `ByteArray`.<br><br>
In order to stop receiving messages, you have to call ```consumer.stopConsuming()```.<br>The consumer will terminate regardless of whether there are messages in flight for the client.

### Creating a Producer

```kotlin
val producer = memphis.producer("<station-name>", "<producer-name>") {
    genUniqueSuffix = false
}
```

### Producing a message

```kotlin
producer.produce("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>") {
    ackWait = 15.seconds
    messageId = "<message Id>"
}
```

### Add headers

```kotlin
producer.produce("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>") {
    headers.put("key", "value")
}
```

### Async produce
Meaning your application won't wait for broker acknowledgement - use only in case you are tolerant for data loss

```kotlin
producer.produceAsync("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>")
```

### Message ID
Stations are idempotent by default for 2 minutes (can be configured), Idempotency achieved by adding a message id

```kotlin
producer.produce("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>") {
    messageId = "123"
}
```

### Destroying a Producer

```kotlin
producer.destroy()
```

### Creating a Consumer

```kotlin
val consumer = memphis.consumer("<station-name>", "<consumer-name>") {
    consumerGroup = "<consumer-group>"
    pullInterval = 1.seconds
    batchSize = 10
    batchMaxTimeToWait = 5.seconds
    maxAckTime = 30.seconds
    maxMsgDeliveries = 10
    genUniqueSuffix = false
}
```

### Processing Messages
To consume messages you just need to collect the messages from the flow.

```kotlin
consumer.consume().collect {
    println("Received message:")
    println(it.data.toString(Charset.defaultCharset()))
    println(it.headers)
    println()
    it.ack()
}
```

If you need tighter control on when a new message should be fetched. `subscribeMessages` only fetches a message when an item in the flow is collected.
It does not listen on DLS messages. You need to listen separately for DLS messages with `subscribeDls`
```kotlin
consumer.subscribeMessages().collect {
    println("Received message:")
    println(it.data.toString(Charset.defaultCharset()))
    println(it.headers)
    println()
    it.ack()
}

consumer.subscribeDls().collect {
    println("Received DLS message:")
    println(it.data.toString(Charset.defaultCharset()))
    println(it.headers)
    println()
    it.ack()
}
```

### Acknowledging a Message
Acknowledging a message indicates to the Memphis server to not <br>re-send the same message again to the same consumer or consumers group.

```kotlin
message.ack()
```

### Get headers
Get headers per message
```kotlin
val headers = msg.headers
```
### Destroying a Consumer

```kotlin
consumer.destroy()
```

Commit message:

Update handling of producers in Memphis SDK
Major refactor of the management ofproducer lifecycle in the Memphis SDK.
Enhancements include updating subscription handling to include support for multiple partitions, better error handling when missing partition information, and addition of applicationId to producer response. Additional minor changes and improvements were made to various functionalities. Including support for User/password

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

![Memphis light logo](https://github.com/memphisdev/memphis-broker/blob/master/logo-white.png?raw=true#gh-dark-mode-only)

</div>

<div align="center">

![Memphis light logo](https://github.com/memphisdev/memphis-broker/blob/master/logo-black.png?raw=true#gh-light-mode-only)

</div>

<div align="center">
<h4>Simple as RabbitMQ, Robust as Apache Kafka, and Perfect for microservices.</h4>

<img width="750" alt="Memphis UI" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70286779/204081372-186aae7b-a387-4253-83d1-b07dff69b3d0.png"><br>


<a href="https://landscape.cncf.io/?selected=memphis"><img width="200" alt="CNCF Silver Member" src="https://github.com/cncf/artwork/raw/master/other/cncf-member/silver/white/cncf-member-silver-white.svg#gh-dark-mode-only"></a>

</div>

<div align="center">

  <img width="200" alt="CNCF Silver Member" src="https://github.com/cncf/artwork/raw/master/other/cncf-member/silver/color/cncf-member-silver-color.svg#gh-light-mode-only">

</div>

 <p align="center">
  <a href="https://sandbox.memphis.dev/" target="_blank">Sandbox</a> - <a href="https://memphis.dev/docs/">Docs</a> - <a href="https://twitter.com/Memphis_Dev">Twitter</a> - <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVdMDLCSxXOqtgrBaRUHKKg">YouTube</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://discord.gg/WZpysvAeTf"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/963333392844328961?color=6557ff&label=discord" alt="Discord"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/memphisdev/memphis-broker/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/memphisdev/memphis-broker?color=6557ff"></a> 
<a href="https://github.com/memphisdev/memphis-broker/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Code%20of%20Conduct-v1.0-ff69b4.svg?color=ffc633" alt="Code Of Conduct"></a> 
<a href="https://docs.memphis.dev/memphis/release-notes/releases/v0.4.2-beta"><img alt="GitHub release (latest by date)" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/memphisdev/memphis-broker?color=61dfc6"></a>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/memphisdev/memphis-broker?color=61dfc6&label=last%20commit">
</p>

**[Memphis](https://memphis.dev)** is a next-generation message broker.<br>
A simple, robust, and durable cloud-native message broker wrapped with<br>
an entire ecosystem that enables fast and reliable development of next-generation event-driven use cases.<br><br>
Memphis enables building next-generation applications that require large volumes of streamed and enriched data,<br>
modern protocols, zero ops, rapid development, extreme cost reduction,<br>
and a significantly lower amount of dev time for data-oriented developers and data engineers.
<br><br>
Creator: [@adrianNEMO](https://github.com/nemoengineering/memphis.kt/commits?author=adrianNEMO)<br>
Maintainer: [@adrianNEMO](https://github.com/nemoengineering/memphis.kt/commits?author=adrianNEMO), [@Memphis team](https://github.com/memphisdev)

# Installation
After installing and running memphis broker,<br>
Add to the dependencies in your gradle file

Currently, releases are published to jitpack: [jitpack.io/#memphisdev/memphis.kt](https://jitpack.io/#memphisdev/memphis.kt)

```kotlin
 repositories {
    mavenCentral()
    maven("https://jitpack.io")
}

dependencies {
    implementation("com.github.memphisdev:memphis.kt:<version>")
}
```

# Importing
```kotlin
import dev.memphis.sdk.Memphis
```

### Connecting to Memphis 
To connect using Username and Password 
```kotlin
 val memphis = Memphis.connect("<memphis-host>", "<application type username>", Memphis.Password("<user-password>"))
```
To connect using Token 
```kotlin
 val memphis = Memphis.connect("<memphis-host>", "<application type username>", Memphis.ConnectionToken("<user-password>"))
```
<br>
It is possible to pass connection configuration parameters.

```kotlin
val memphis = Memphis.connect("<memphis-host>", "<application type username>", Memphis.Password("<user-password>")) {
    port = 6666
    autoReconnect = true
    maxReconnects = 3
    reconnectWait = 5.seconds
    connectionTimeout = 15.seconds
}
```

Once connected, all features offered by Memphis are available.<br>

### Disconnecting from Memphis
To disconnect from Memphis, call Close() on the Memphis connection object.<br>

```kotlin
memphis.close()
```

### Creating a Station
Stations can be created from Conn<br>
Passing optional parameters<br>
_If a station already exists nothing happens, the new configuration will not be applied_<br>

```kotlin
val station = memphis.createStation("<station-name>")

val station = memphis.createStation("<station-name>") {
    retentionType = RetentionType.MAX_AGE_SECONDS
    retentionValue = 604800
    storageType = StorageType.DISK
    replicas = 1
    idempotencyWindow = 2.minutes
    schemaName = "<Schema Name>"
    sendPoisonMsgToDls = true
    sendSchemaFailedMsgToDls = true
    partitionsNumber = 1
    tieredStorageEnabled = false
    dlsStation = "<dls station name>"
}
```

### Retention Types
Memphis currently supports the following types of retention:<br>

```kotlin
RetentionType.MAX_AGE_SECONDS
```

The above means that every message persists for the value set in the retention value field (in seconds).

```kotlin
RetentionType.MESSAGES
```

The above means that after the maximum number of saved messages (set in retention value)<br>has been reached, the oldest messages will be deleted.

```kotlin
RetentionType.BYTES
```

The above means that after maximum number of saved bytes (set in retention value)<br>has been reached, the oldest messages will be deleted.

### Retention Values

The `retention values` are directly related to the `retention types` mentioned above,<br> where the values vary according to the type of retention chosen.

All retention values are of type `int` but with different representations as follows:

`RetentionType.MAX_AGE_SECONDS` is represented **in seconds**, `RetentionType.MESSAGES` in a **number of messages** <br> and finally `RetentionType.BYTES` in a **number of bytes**.

After these limits are reached oldest messages will be deleted.

### Storage Types
Memphis currently supports the following types of messages storage:<br>

```kotlin
StorageType.DISK
```

The above means that messages persist on disk.

```kotlin
StorageType.MEMORY
```

The above means that messages persist on the main memory.<br>

### Destroying a Station
Destroying a station will remove all its resources (including producers and consumers).<br>

```kotlin
station.Destroy()
```

### Attaching a Schema to an Existing Station

```kotlin
memphis.attachSchema("<schema-name>", "<station-name>")

// Or from a station

station.attachSchema("<schema-name>")
```

### Detaching a Schema from Station

```kotlin
memphis.detachSchema("<station-name>")

// Or from a station
station.detachSchema()
```

### Produce and Consume Messages
The most common client operations are producing messages and consuming messages.<br><br>
Messages are published to a station and consumed from it<br>by creating a consumer and consuming the resulting flow.<br>Consumers are pull-based and consume all the messages in a station<br> unless you are using a consumers group,<br>in which case messages are spread across all members in this group.<br><br>
Memphis messages are payload agnostic. Payloads are `ByteArray`.<br><br>
In order to stop receiving messages, you have to call ```consumer.stopConsuming()```.<br>The consumer will terminate regardless of whether there are messages in flight for the client.

### Creating a Producer

```kotlin
val producer = memphis.producer("<station-name>", "<producer-name>") {
    genUniqueSuffix = false
}
```

### Producing a message

```kotlin
producer.produce("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>") {
    ackWait = 15.seconds
    messageId = "<message Id>"
}
```

### Add headers

```kotlin
producer.produce("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>") {
    headers.put("key", "value")
}
```
### Produce to specific partition

```kotlin
producer.produce("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>") {
    partition = 1
}
```
The default is -1 which will result in partitions being selected in a round robin fashion


### Async produce
Meaning your application won't wait for broker acknowledgement - use only in case you are tolerant for data loss

```kotlin
producer.produceAsync("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>")
```

### Message ID
Stations are idempotent by default for 2 minutes (can be configured), Idempotency achieved by adding a message id

```kotlin
producer.produce("<message in ByteArray or (schema validated station - protobuf) or ByteArray(schema validated station - json schema) or ByteArray (schema validated station - graphql schema)>") {
    messageId = "123"
}
```

### Destroying a Producer

```kotlin
producer.destroy()
```

### Creating a Consumer

```kotlin
val consumer = memphis.consumer("<station-name>", "<consumer-name>") {
    consumerGroup = "<consumer-group>"
    pullInterval = 1.seconds
    batchSize = 10
    batchMaxTimeToWait = 5.seconds
    maxAckTime = 30.seconds
    maxMsgDeliveries = 10
    genUniqueSuffix = false
    startConsumeFromSequence = 1
    lastMessages = -1
    partitionNumber = -1
}
```
A ParititionNumber of -1 indicates that all partitions should be consumed.

### Processing Messages
To consume messages you just need to collect the messages from the flow.

```kotlin
consumer.consume().collect {
    println("Received message:")
    println(it.data.toString(Charset.defaultCharset()))
    println(it.headers)
    println()
    it.ack()
}
```

If you need tighter control on when a new message should be fetched. `subscribeMessages` only fetches a message when an item in the flow is collected.
It does not listen on DLS messages. You need to listen separately for DLS messages with `subscribeDls`
```kotlin
consumer.subscribeMessages().collect {
    println("Received message:")
    println(it.data.toString(Charset.defaultCharset()))
    println(it.headers)
    println()
    it.ack()
}

consumer.subscribeDls().collect {
    println("Received DLS message:")
    println(it.data.toString(Charset.defaultCharset()))
    println(it.headers)
    println()
    it.ack()
}
```

### Acknowledging a Message
Acknowledging a message indicates to the Memphis server to not <br>re-send the same message again to the same consumer or consumers group.

```kotlin
message.ack()
```

### Get headers
Get headers per message
```kotlin
val headers = msg.headers
```
### Destroying a Consumer

```kotlin
consumer.destroy()
```
